[ADD] accounting/l10n_ca: canada accounting (#9205)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/finance/fiscal_localizations/canada.rst

======
Canada
======

.. |COA| replace:: :abbr:`CoA (Chart of Accounts)`
.. |AR| replace:: :abbr:`AR (Accounts Receivable)`
.. |AP| replace:: :abbr:`AP (Accounts Payable)`

The Odoo Canada localization package provides tailored features and configurations for Canadian
businesses.

> In addition, a series of videos on the subject of Accounting are available through Odoo's eLearning
> platform. These videos cover how to start from scratch, set up configurations, complete common
> workflows, and provide in-depth looks at some specific use cases, as well.

Reviewer: redundant + don't need 
```suggestion
A series of videos on the subject of Accounting are available through Odoo's eLearning platform.
These videos cover how to start from scratch, set up configurations, complete common workflows, and
provide in-depth looks at some specific use cases.
```

.. seealso::
   - `Odoo Tutorials: Accounting & Invoicing
     <https://www.odoo.com/slides/accounting-and-invoicing-19>`_
   - `Odoo SmartClass: Accounting <https://www.odoo.com/slides/smartclass-accounting-121>`_

Configuration
=============

Below are the available modules in Odoo for accounting use in Canada.

Modules installation
--------------------

:ref:`Install <general/install>` the following modules to get all the features of the Canadian
localization:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 25 25 50

   * - Name
     - Technical name
     - Description
   * - :guilabel:`Canada - Accounting`
     - `l10n_ca`
     - Base accounting module for Canadian localization.
   * - :guilabel:`Canada - Accounting Reports`
     - `l10n_ca_reports`
     - Adds Canadian accounting reports.
   * - :guilabel:`Canadian Checks Layout`
     - `l10n_ca_check_printing`
     - Enables the printing of payments on pre-printed check paper. Supports the three most common

>        check formats and will work out of the box with the linked checks from `checkdepot.net

Reviewer: future --> present tense, remove idiom
```suggestion
       check formats and works natively with the linked checks from `checkdepot.net
```

   - :doc:`../accounting/get_started/cheat_sheet`

.. _l10n_ca/fiscal-positions:

Fiscal positions
================

Canadian tax rates and taxable items vary by province and territory. Default fiscal positions are
automatically created when the Odoo **Accounting** application is installed. To manage or configure
additional fiscal positions, navigate to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Fiscal
Positions`.

The following fiscal positions are available by default:

- :guilabel:`Alberta (AB)`
- :guilabel:`British Colombia (BC)`
- :guilabel:`Manitoba (MB)`
- :guilabel:`New Brunswick (NB)`
- :guilabel:`Newfoundland and Labrador (NL)`
- :guilabel:`Nova Scotia (NS)`
- :guilabel:`Northwest Territories (NT)`
- :guilabel:`Nunavut (NU)`
- :guilabel:`Ontario (ON)`
- :guilabel:`Prince Edward Islands (PE)`
- :guilabel:`Quebec (QC)`
- :guilabel:`Saskatchewan (SK)`
- :guilabel:`Yukon (YT)`
- :guilabel:`International (INTL)`

.. image:: canada/l10n-ca-fiscal-positions.png
   :alt: The default fiscal positions for the Canada localization in Odoo Accounting.

.. note::
   When considering what taxes to be applied, it is the province where the delivery occurs that

>    matters. Therefore delivery is the responsibility of the vendor and is accounted for at the

Reviewer: need a comma there 😉 
```suggestion
   matters. Therefore, delivery is the responsibility of the vendor and is accounted for at the
```

   customer location.

.. example::
   - A delivery is made to a customer from another province.
        Set the fiscal position on the customer's record to the province of the customer.
   - A customer from another province comes to pick up products.
        No fiscal position should be set on the customer's record.
   - An international vendor doesn't charge any tax, but taxes are charged by the customs broker.
        Set the fiscal position on the vendor's record to *International*.
   - An international vendor charges provincial tax.
        Set the fiscal position on the vendor's record to your position.

.. seealso::
   :doc:`../accounting/taxes/fiscal_positions`

.. _l10n_ca/taxes:

Taxes
=====

In Canada, tax rates and what is considered taxable vary by province and territory. Default *Sales*
and *Purchases* taxes are created automatically when the Odoo **Accounting** application is
installed. To manage existing or configure additional taxes, navigate to
:menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Taxes`.

.. _l10n_ca/taxes-avatax:

AvaTax
------

**Avalara AvaTax** is a cloud-based tax calculation and compliance software that integrates with

> Odoo for several localizations. Integrating AvaTax with Odoo provides real-time and region-specific

Reviewer: emphasizing what the reader cares about
```suggestion
Odoo for several localizations, including Canada. Integrating AvaTax with Odoo provides real-time and region-specific
```

tax calculations when items are sold, purchased, and invoiced in the database.

.. important::

>    AvaTax is available for integration with databases/companies that have locations in Canada and
>    the United States. Reference the :ref:`avatax/fiscal_country` documentation for more information.

Reviewer: important detail to confirm
is the integration available for companies that **only** have locations in CA? Or is a US location required too?
```suggestion
   AvaTax is available for integration with databases/companies that have locations in Canada and/or
   the United States. Reference the :ref:`avatax/fiscal_country` documentation for more information.
```
